README.md, before:

# shootproof-cli

Command line client for [ShootProof](http://shootproof.com)

## Usage

```/path/to/shootproof.phar <command> [options]```

This client requires certain options to be set which may be set explicitly on the command line, or in a configuration file. The default location of the configuration file is `~/.shootproof`.

The configuration file should contain some or all of the following settings:

```
accessToken=<token>
verbosity=<level>
haltOnError=true
```

## General Options

Replace `<placeholders>` with their actual values. [Brackets] signify options which are optional.

### --verbosity=`<level>`

Output verbosity level. Default is 1 (normal).

Level | Description
------|------------
    0 | Silent
    1 | Normal
    2 | Debug

This option overrides the value set in the configuration file.

### --config=`<pathToConfigFile>`

Path to the script configuration file.

### --access-token=`<token>`

ShootProof API access token.

This option overrides the value set in the configuration file.

### --haltOnError

When performing batch operations, stops execution at the first error that occurs.

## Commands

### help [`<command>`]

Displays the help screen for a given command, or a list of commands if no command is specified.

### push [options] [`<dir>`]

```push [--target=event|album] [--event=<eventId>] [--event-name="<name>"] [--album=<albumId>] [--parent-album=<albumId>] [--album-name="<name>"] [--album-password="<password>"] [--replace] [--preview] [--link] [<dir>]```

If no `event` option is passed, a new ShootProof event will be created automatically using the name of the directory, or with the name specified in `event-name`.

This command will compare the ShootProof photos in the specified event and compare those to the ones in the directory. New photos will be added to ShootProof; any photos not in the directory will be deleted from ShootProof. If the `replace` option is specified, then matching photos in ShootProof will be overwritten with the ones from the directory.

If the `preview` option is passed, then the operation will not actually execute, but a preview of the operation will be output.

If no directory is specified, the current directory will be used.

Options for this command may also be set in a `.shootproof` file in the directory, or piped in.

```
target=<target>
event=<eventId>
eventName=<name>
album=<albumId>
parentAlbum=<parentAlbumId>
albumName=<name>
albumPassword=<password>
```

After this command completes successfully, a `.shootproof` file will be written to the directory for use in subsequent runs.

### pull [options] [`<dir>`]

```pull [--event=<eventId>] [--album=<albumId>] [--replace] [--preview] [<dir>]```

This command will compare the ShootProof photos in the specified event and compare those to the ones in the directory. New photos will be downloaded from ShootProof; any photos not on ShootProof will be deleted from the directory. If the `replace` option is specified, then matching photos in the directory will be overwritten with the ones from ShootProof.

If the `preview` option is passed, then the operation will not actually execute, but a preview of the operation will be output.

If no directory is specified, the current directory will be used.

If a `.shootproof` file exists in the directory, the `event` and `album` options will be read from that file unless they are explicitly provided on the command line.

### accesslevel [options] [`<dir>`]

```accesslevel --access-level=<level> [--event=<eventId>] [<dir>]```

Changes the access level and password for a ShootProof event. `access-level` must be set to one of the following access levels:

* `public_no_password`
* `public_password`
* `private_no_password`
* `private_password`

If no `event` option is specified and a `.shootproof` file exists in the directory, `event` will be read from that file.

Commit message:

Add email, retry, and multiple directories

README.md, after:

# shootproof-cli

Command line client for [ShootProof](http://shootproof.com)

## Usage

```/path/to/shootproof.phar <command> [options]```

This client requires certain options to be set which may be set explicitly on the command line, or in a configuration file. The default location of the configuration file is `~/.shootproof`.

The configuration file may contain some or all of the following settings:

```
appId=<id>
accessToken=<token>
verbosity=<level>
haltOnError=true
retryLimit=<limit>
email=<email>
```

## General Options

Replace `<placeholders>` with their actual values. [Brackets] signify options which are optional.

### --verbosity=`<level>`

Output verbosity level. Default is 1 (normal).

Level | Description
------|------------
    0 | Silent
    1 | Normal
    2 | Debug

### --config=`<pathToConfigFile>`

Path to the script configuration file.

### --app-id=`<id>`

ShootProof API application ID.

### --access-token=`<token>`

ShootProof API access token.

### --email=`<email>`

Email address to log the script results to.

### --retry-limit=`<limit>`

Number of times to retry an operation if it fails. This option is ignored if `--halt-on-error` is passed.

### --halt-on-error

When performing batch operations, stops execution at the first error that occurs.

## Commands

### help [`<command>`]

Displays the help screen for a given command, or a list of commands if no command is specified.

### push [options] [`<dir>`]

```push [--target=event|album] [--event=<eventId>] [--event-name="<name>"] [--album=<albumId>] [--parent-album=<albumId>] [--album-name="<name>"] [--album-password="<password>"] [--replace] [--preview] [--link] [<dirlist>]```

Uploads photos in a directory or set of directories to a ShootProof event or album. Choose between the two using the `target-event` parameter.

If no `event` or `album` ID is passed, a new ShootProof event or album will be created automatically using the name of the directory. If `event-name` or `album-name` is passed, it will be created with the specified name. Additional album settings may be passed with `parent-album` and `album-password`.

Push will compare the photos on ShootProof with the ones in a directory. New photos will be added to ShootProof; any photos not in the directory will be deleted from ShootProof. If the `replace` option is specified, then matching photos in ShootProof will be overwritten with the ones from the directory.

If the `preview` option is passed, then the operation will not actually execute, but a preview of the operation will be output.

If no directory is specified, the current directory will be used. Glob expressions are supported for processing multiple directories (each matching directory will be pushed to a separate ShootProof event or album).

Options for this command may also be set in a `.shootproof` file in the directory, or piped in:

```
target=<target>
event=<eventId>
eventName=<name>
album=<albumId>
parentAlbum=<parentAlbumId>
albumName=<name>
albumPassword=<password>
```

After this command completes successfully, a `.shootproof` file will be written to the directory for use in subsequent runs.

### pull [options] [`<dir>`]

```pull [--event=<eventId>] [--album=<albumId>] [--replace] [--preview] [<dir>]```

This command will compare the ShootProof photos in the specified event and compare those to the ones in the directory. New photos will be downloaded from ShootProof; any photos not on ShootProof will be deleted from the directory. If the `replace` option is specified, then matching photos in the directory will be overwritten with the ones from ShootProof.

If the `preview` option is passed, then the operation will not actually execute, but a preview of the operation will be output.

If no directory is specified, the current directory will be used.

If a `.shootproof` file exists in the directory, the `event` and `album` options will be read from that file unless they are explicitly provided on the command line.

### accesslevel [options] [`<dir>`]

```accesslevel --access-level=<level> [--event=<eventId>] [<dir>]```

Changes the access level and password for a ShootProof event. `access-level` must be set to one of the following access levels:

* `public_no_password`
* `public_password`
* `private_no_password`
* `private_password`

If no `event` option is specified and a `.shootproof` file exists in the directory, `event` will be read from that file.
